planning is the face where we now select
appropriate goals for the the patient
and we diagnosed them with some
particular nursing problem and now we
want to start to take action to improve
this so they're usually step-by-step
objectives they need to be realistic the
patient has kidney disease and they have
altered unary elimination we aren't
going to be able to fix their kidneys so
we can't say that so it has to be
realistic they are centered around the
client so they are worded as the client
will not the nurse will but the client
will and once again we want to only use
single factors the best way to write an
outcome is to have it be a measurable
change that we want to see this is
because the nursing care points we're
writing are used by everyone
participating in the care so this
includes licensed vocational nurses for
example and nurses aides and in it's
much easier to hold somebody responsible
to you that you've delegated a nursing
task to if you're very specific so
anytime that you can count or show
specific numbers this is this is the
best way to actually be able to
demonstrate to that goals have been met
both statements outcome statements
include time limits so I have seen a
problem
I've validated it by having seen heard
this objective subjective data collected
this objective data I'm choosing this
diagnosis here's my goal for the client
and when will I actually achieve that
when should others in my absence look
back to see and reevaluate remember that
cyclic process to see if things are
going well for my client so short term
goals are less than a week long term
goals could be weeks or months and
certain goals are ongoing you can you
can't say you know I will the patient
will have adequate airway clearance by
next week is they got to be breathing
all of this week so in the case of
physiologic problems we usually say that
patients will maintain
so in an ongoing fashion they will be
meeting the goals just as there is a
North American nursing diagnosis
association there is also standardized
language for discussing patient outcomes
and this is called knock or the national
outcome classification this is
standardized and expected outcomes from
a given nursing action so here's a
sample knock statement and these are
printed in your nursing diagnosis book
so once you've determined what you think
the nursing diagnosis is you look you
look at defining characteristics and and
see that yes indeed that was patient's
actual problem and then below that it
will actually have the appropriate goal
for that given patient problem so the
nandha the nursing diagnosis is has an
example here's an example anxiety
related to change in role status as
evidenced by feelings of dread the goal
is the client will identify her beliefs
and demonstrate techniques to manage
anxiety all right so here's the
objectives and then here we have the
measurable part they'll do it within two
Hospital days in an acute care hospital
it is a requirement that all nursing
care plans be reviewed and updated
within a 72 hour period so any nursing
problem that is initiated on a care plan
you know them at a maximum that it has
72 hours before it needs to be
reevaluated
interventions is a fancy word for
actions and once again there is actual
standardized action and they're referred
to as the national intervention
classifications these are the
research-based steps that have been
determined to be most effective whether
we're treating dehydration so altered
fluid status or overweight so
nutritional excess whatever the problem
is there are actual research-based steps
that we should take and these are
categorized in different ways one is to
categorize them as what
and the nurse too independently so what
does the nurse do without having to call
and solicit a physician order it
requires absolutely no supervision or
direction from physicians and is within
our own licensure guidelines
teaching is an example of that we like
to label nursing action within the
schools care plans that you're writing
for school as independent so that we
know that you know these are the things
that I can do on my own
other things require the physician
intervention so they require a written
or verbal order from a physician and
these are said to be dependent and these
are actions that are taken in response
to physicians written orders and we
aren't prescribing people so when
physician orders a medicine to be given
for example and here's an example
medicate with anxiolytic drugs as
ordered this is a dependent nursing
intervention other vention interventions
are said to be collaborative this is
when we work with the other health
professionals that are also involved in
patient care such as a dietitian or a
physical therapist or an occupational
therapist or maybe social work so some
interventions within our parents not
that we're ordering these other people
to do it but we're aware that they're
collaborating on the plan of care for
the patient to meet our goals the last
phase the fifth phase of the nursing
process then is to evaluate the
effectiveness of the actions to see if
the goals were met and one thing that
you will have to do is one of three
things which is either the plan didn't
work and it requires revision so it now
is going to have new goals new timelines
maybe the interventions need to be
altered or perhaps the problem is
resolved the patient no longer has a
pain patient is no longer risk for
infection and at that point that
particular problem that particular
nursing diagnosed is discontinued
because it's resolved or perhaps the
patient is having ongoing pain
risk for infection and now we simply are
indicating that we want to continue with
the plan the problem is still present
and but the plan is still working so
here's some example